blood smear  

## day2Week43 2019/10/22 Tue.
Q: What is Sensitivity?
In the clinical laboratory
1. a test's ability to correctly identify individuals who have a given disease or disorder;
2. ability of a test to detect small amounts of a substance or to measure a reaction




## day4, 2019/10/17 Thur.

Adriaens, C., Standaert, L., Barra, J., Latil, M., Verfaillie, A., Kalev, P., … Marine, J.-C. (2016). P53 induces formation of NEAT1 lncRNA-containing paraspeckles that modulate replication stress response and chemosensitivity. Nature Medicine, 22(8), 861. https://doi.org/10/f83r5c

noun#1. paraspeckle 亚结构-斑
---

Function:
 - an important model system for studying long noncoding RNA–protein interactions in the context of gene regulation.

Constituion:
 - Nascent 23,000-nucleotide NEAT1 long noncoding RNA transcripts act as a seed to recruit nuclear RNA-binding proteins and build a paraspeckle. 23000bp的NEAT1 lncRNA转录本能够招募 核RNA结合蛋白，形成paraspeckle
 - 核糖核蛋白+液相状态分离 Protein domains that mediate liquid–liquid phase separation are essential for many aspects of paraspeckle formation, including gluing together individual ribonucleoprotein bundles into a mature paraspeckle.
 - 细胞应激事件导致，如感染和转化？Paraspeckle formation is dynamic and triggered by many different cell stress scenarios including infection and transformation.

Paraspeckles are mammal-specific RNA–protein nuclear bodies that regulate gene expression. First described in 2002 as nuclear foci enriched in the marker protein paraspeckle component protein 1 (PSPC1) [1], paraspeckles are now known to contain over 40 different proteins (generally ubiquitously expressed RNA-binding proteins) and one architectural lncRNA, nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1; see Table 1). Some component proteins mediate critical RNA–protein or protein–protein interactions essential for paraspeckle formation (noted in Table 1). In addition to these structural components there are several different molecules targeted to paraspeckles, such as various types of RNAs, as well as proteins that are not required to build paraspeckles, but nevertheless may be regulated by them.

细胞分布
Paraspeckles of varying size and abundance are found in the nucleus of most cultured cells, including primary and transformed cell lines, but are absent from embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) [2]. Paraspeckles have been detected in many different tissues; however, prominent paraspeckles are found only in a subpopulation of cells in murine tissues, such as luteal黄体 cells in the ovary and cells at the tip of gut epithelium [3].
Although paraspeckles were first defined as sites of enrichment of PSPC1, subsequent siRNA knockdown experiments showed that PSPC1 was in fact dispensable for paraspeckle formation [4].
However, two other closely related proteins, NONO and SFPQ, are absolutely required for paraspeckle formation, along with several other proteins: HNRNPK, DAZAP1, FUS, RBM14, HNRNPH3 – knockdown of any of these proteins in HeLa cells results in paraspeckle ablation ([5], Table 1). Given this seemingly minor role for the original paraspeckle marker protein, here we propose a definitive definition of a paraspeckle: a nuclear body in which one of the essential paraspeckle proteins co-localizes with the longer isoform of NEAT1.

2010 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2890200/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paraspeckle
http://jcb.rupress.org/content/186/5/637
2018 https://www.cell.com/trends/biochemical-sciences/fulltext/S0968-0004(17)30224-4
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41556-018-0207-z A mitochondria–paraspeckle crosstalk Archa H. Fox
2018 https://www.nature.com/articles/s41556-018-0207-z Paraspeckles: Where Long Noncoding RNA Meets Phase Separation Archa H. Fox Shinichi Nakagawa Tetsuro Hirose Charles S. Bond


## day5, 2019/10/18 Fri.

### noun#2: breast cancer
Char: Disease, Cancer

#### root
  1. history
  2.


related references

Among females, breast, colorectal, and lung cancers are the three most frequently diagnosed cancers and the three leading causes of cancer-related death both worldwide, and in more economically developed countries

#### survival

| Eng|Chi|
| --------------- |:------------------------- |
| median duration | 中期持续？                |
| aetiology       | n. 原因之说明,原因论,病原 |
| Tamoxifen  |    三苯氧胺,它莫西芬(一种抗雌激素,用于治疗妇女乳腺癌或不育症)                      |
|                 |                           |
|                 |                           |


median duration of follow-up was 125 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 121.4 to 129.9)

distant metastasis-free survival 无转移生存

#### Subtype
IHC-based subtype
PAM50 intrinsic subtype

protein-expression-defined subgroups, by stromal/microenvironmental elements
specific signalling pathways dominant in each molecular subtype including a HER2/phosphorylated HER2/EGFR/phosphorylated EGFR signature within the HER2-enriched expression subtype.


basal-like tumors comparison: molecular commonality
a related aetiology and similar therapeutic opportunities.

The biological finding of the four main breast cancer subtypes caused by different subsets of **genetic and epigenetic abnormalities** raises the hypothesis that much of the **clinically observable plasticity and heterogeneity** occurs within, and not across, these major biological subtypes of breast cancer.

Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers with greater than 1,300,000 cases and 450,000 deaths each year worldwide. Clinically, this heterogeneous disease is **categorized into three basic therapeutic groups**.
  - The oestrogen雌激素 receptor (ER) positive group is the most numerous and diverse, with several genomic tests to assist in predicting outcomes for ER+ patients receiving endocrine therapy.
  - The HER2 (also called ERBB2) amplified group is a great clinical success because of effective therapeutic targeting of HER2, which has led to intense efforts to characterize other **DNA copy number aberrations**.
  - Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs, lacking expression of ER, progesterone receptor (PR) and HER2), also known as **basal-like breast cancers**, are a group with only chemotherapy options, and have an increased incidence** in patients with germline BRCA1 mutations or of African ancestry**.


ER率先被发现，应该是更容易被治疗。参考文献清单：
1. Paik, S., Shak, S., Tang, G., Kim, C., Baker, J., Cronin, M., … Wolmark, N. (2004). A Multigene Assay to Predict Recurrence of Tamoxifen-Treated, Node-Negative Breast Cancer. New England Journal of Medicine, 351(27), 2817–2826. https://doi.org/10/fwqw7x
>因淋巴结阴性LN-, ER+样本的临床和病理组化测度不够明确而做，所以使用RT-PCR测量21个候选基因在病人组织（LN-, tamoxifen乳腺癌样本）的表达，根据___Recurrence-Score Algorithm____计算复发分数和疾病风险组，d，

2. Veer, L. J. van ’t, Dai, H., Vijver, M. J. van de, He, Y. D., Hart, A. A. M., Mao, M., … Friend, S. H. (2002). Gene expression profiling predicts clinical outcome of breast cancer. Nature, 415(6871), 530–536. https://doi.org/10/d2qj3f


|BioinfoNoun | meaning|
| -------------------------------------------- | ---                        |
| -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Reference-normalized expression measurements | 以参考基因标准化的表达测度 |
|                                              |                            |
